---
title: test Cake
date: 2023-01-29 08:00
categories: [recipes]
tags: [recipes,sweet,sauce]
---

# INGREDIENTS

## Cake

- 2 large bananas (about 250 grams when peeled)
- 150 grams unsalted butter
- 150 grams brown sugar
- 2 large eggs
- 1 teaspoon vanilla extract
- 1 shot espresso (cooled)
- 60 mL plain yoghurt
- 225 grams all-purpose flour
- 1 teaspoon baking powder
- 1 teaspoon baking soda
- 1 teaspoon cinnamon
- 1 teaspoon cardamom

## Icing

- 100 grams unsalted butter
- 175 grams icing sugar
- 60 grams cream cheese
- 1 shot espresso (cooled)
- 1/2 teaspoon cardamom
- 1 ripe banana (for decoration)
- 1/3 cup slivered almonds (for decoration)


# INSTRUCTIONS

- Preheat the oven to 180°C (350°F). Grease and line a 20cm (8-inch) springform cake tin.
- Peel the bananas, and roughly mash them with a back of a fork. Place in a food processor and process to a paste. - Remove from processor and set aside in a separate bowl.
- Add the butter and sugar to the same processor you used for the banana, and cream together. Scrape down the sides with a rubber spatula as needed.
- Add the eggs, vanilla, and shot of espresso. Process until smooth, add the bananas, and process again. It will be a bit lumpy, but that's okay!
- Add the flour, baking soda, baking powder, and spices one at a time, alternating with the yoghurt and blend until just combined.
- Remove the batter from the food processor and pour into the prepared cake tin. Bake in the oven for 40 minutes, or until a skewer inserted into the middle of the cake comes out clean.
- Remove from oven and place the tin on a wire rack to cool. (I usually put it in the fridge to help cool completely after about 40 minutes on the rack).
- While the cake is cooling, prepare the icing. Beat the cream cheese and butter together in a food processor until smooth and well-combined. Add the icing sugar, espresso, and cardamom and process again until smooth.
- Once the cake is cool, decorate with the icing, a sliced ripe banana, and the slivered almonds.[label](https://www.facebook.com/messages/t/eden.kennedy.56)